Add `The NAT Gazette: June 2024` news post (#11518)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-05-01-the-nat-gazette-june-2024.md

Yep, you heard it here first. Or probably not. But the RC test is gone, dusted. Vanished, not to come again in the foreseeable future. The test in its current form didn't offer a lot. Besides being a filter and an English comprehension test, it was redundant as applicants would better show their understanding of the Ranking Criteria through their mods. 

#### Streamlining cooldowns

Cooldowns have been homogenized across the board. Failed applicants and BNs who get kicked for low activity will always have to wait 60 days before reapplying again under normal circumstances. This does not apply to Beatmap Nominators who leave on good terms and want to rejoin within a year after their departure who will be able to rejoin instantly.

#### Progress bar for applications

One of the issues with the opaqueness of the process was that candidates didn't know when their verdict would be delivered, or at what stage their application was. By offering our very own BN app parcel tracking service, applicants will now be able to be updated in real time when their food — I mean, their application — be delivered.

Insert image perchance.

#### Reworking application feedback

> Feedback has been simplified. In short, this change will make the feedback writing process which was deemed redundant be less time-consuming. This will quicken the time for the results of an application to be delivered. The evaluators' comments will instead serve as more in depth feedback.

Author: Need to take a masterclass in knowing when to keep words together, using a hyphen, or just a space.

#### Communication platform post-applications (need a better title) (I couldn't come up with one either)

After receiving their verdict, users can reply to their evaluators' feedback in the BN site. While the goal of this change is not to facilitate appeals as under normal circumstances the result of an application is unchangeable, applicants are encouraged to ask questions and clarification on their feedback by using this new feature.

### Within the Beatmap Nominators

#### Probation is no longer a demotion option

> The Probation Beatmap Nominators user group has been reworked slightly. It will now serve its original goal, which is as a trial ground for green beards! When a new Beatmap Nominator is allowed into the team, they will be put in probation for their first couple months. After evaluating their performance with actual BN work, they will either be promoted or removed. Full Beatmap Nominators cannot under any circumstance be demoted back into probation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Probationary Beatmap Nominators user group has been reworked slightly. It will now serve its original goal, which is as a trial ground for greenhorns! When a new Beatmap Nominator is allowed into the team, they will be put in probation for their first couple months. After evaluating their performance with actual BN work, they will either be promoted or removed. Full Beatmap Nominators cannot under any circumstance be demoted back into probation.
```

#### Mock evaluations are no more

> Beatmap Nominators will not be able to make mock evaluations anymore. The system besides being underused, was usually superseded by the introduction of BN Evaluator cycles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beatmap Nominators will not be able to make mock evaluations anymore.  Besides being underused, the system was usually superseded by the introduction of BN Evaluator cycles.
```

#### Vetoes

> Vetoes have slightly been reworked. Once a Veto is made, the entire usergroup of the gamemode which it concerns will be drafted. While participation is not obligatory, this change aims to provide a better representation of what the BN group of a gamemode thinks of a Veto, in turn making the results feel less RNG depending on who got randomly chosen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vetoes have been slightly reworked. Once a veto is made, the entire user group of the game mode which it concerns will be drafted instead of a random jury. While participation is not obligatory, this change aims to provide a better representation of what the BN group of a game mode thinks of a veto, in turn making the results feel less like RNG.
```

> #### Hybrid beatmapsets nomination changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Hybrid beatmapset nomination changes
```

> Beatmapsets comprised of two or more rulesets should have an easier time getting Ranked! While the old system required two proficient BNs for each unique ruleset in the beatmapset, with the new changes only the main gamemode of a set will need two Beatmap Nominators. The rest of rulesets will only require one nomination from its respective mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beatmap comprised of two or more game modes should have an easier time getting ranked! While the old system required two proficient BNs for each game mode present in a beatmap, with the new changes only the main game mode of a set will need two BNs. The other game modes will only require one nomination each. 
```

Author: Sounds a bit weird in the tongue leaving Beatmap without an article.

```suggestion
A beatmap comprised of two or more game modes should have an easier time getting ranked! While the old system required two proficient BNs for each game mode present in a beatmap, with the new changes only the main game mode of a set will need two BNs. The other game modes will only require one nomination each.
```

Reviewer: believe i missed the plural

> The a ruleset will be considered the main one if has the most difficulties, or if it has the most difficulties mapped by the host in the case of a tie. If both conditions apply, any ruleset that satisfies those conditions in the sets may be considered the main one and will need two nominations, giving the mapper and BNs some extra flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main game mode of a beatmap is the one with the most difficulties, or the one with the most difficulties mapped by the host in the case of a tie. If it's still a tie between multiple modes, any one of them may be considered the main one and will need two nominations, giving the mapper and BNs some extra flexibility.
```

### Within the Nomination Assessment Team

#### NAT additions

> With the removal of mock evaluations, the NAT addition process will fully rely on BN Evaluator cycles. Beatmap Nominators can sign up for these cycles, and their peers will vouch for the people they'd like to see assigned. The NAT will pick from this curated list, taking into consideration the opinions of the BNs who vouched their peers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the removal of mock evaluations, the NAT addition process will fully rely on BN Evaluator cycles. Beatmap Nominators can sign up for these cycles, and their peers will vouch for the people they'd like to see assigned. The NAT will pick from this curated list, taking into consideration the opinions of the BNs who vouched for their peers.
```

> It's worth noting that the current implementation is prone to change depending on community feedback. The plan is to test this new implementation to see what works and what doesn't. So stay tuned for more changes to come!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that the current implementation is prone to change depending on community feedback. The plan is to test this new implementation to see what works and what doesn't, so stay tuned for more changes to come!
```

## Things to look out for

### Ranking criteria cleanup project

The Ranking Criteria cleanup project is still going strong! A few proposals already made it into the RC, with more looming around the corner such as the [metadata](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1894663?n=1) or the [storyboard](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1897427?n=1) proposals currently being discussed.

### Badges

show badge redesign, show table of applied badges since the start of the year

---

> This is all for today! To stay tuned with discussions to come, we encourage any and all users to keep an eye in the [Beatmap Management subforum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/115) where future changes will be discussed. Getting to know the community's opinion is crucial, and giving power to the user base should be our priority moving forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is all for today! To stay tuned with discussions to come, we encourage everyone to keep an eye in the [Beatmap Management subforum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/115). Getting to know the community's opinion is crucial, and giving power to the user base should be our priority moving forward.
```

---
layout: post
title: "The NAT Gazette: June 2024"
date: 2024-05-01 13:00:00 +0000
---

The NAT Gazette returns with a big bang and a bigger list of changes to cover!

> ![main banner](/wiki/shared/news/2024-05-01-the-nat-gazette-june-2024/nat-gazette-june-2024.jpg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-05-01-the-nat-gazette-june-2024/nat-gazette-june-2024.jpg)
```

> The NAT isn't dead! Neither has the long awaited batch of updates that have slowly been creeping in ever since the last issue. With a bigger emphasis placed on transparency and easing communication between the Beatmap Nominators and the general playerbase, we'd like to shift gears and focus on how users receive this full suite of updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The NAT isn't dead, nor is the long awaited batch of updates that have slowly been creeping in ever since the last issue. With a bigger emphasis placed on transparency and easing communication between the Beatmap Nominators and the general playerbase, we'd like to shift gears and focus on how users receive this full suite of updates.
```

### Community-wide changes

#### Beatmap Management subforum

As briefly spoiled before, we have created the brand-new [*BN Management* subforum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/115). This subforum aims to be a place for any Beatmap Nominator to start a discussion regarding the user group, Ranked section, or any of the systems involved with it. This not only aims to empower BNs by giving them an outlet to express their ideas, but also for the playerbase to interact and discuss in any open post and provide feedback to the proposals.

#### Public evaluations archive

A public repository with both applications and current BN evaluations can now be accessed by anyone! The repository can be found in the [BN website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/publicarchive). The goal of this change was for applicants to have a point of reference and learn from existing applications to know what to expect! Currently, only users who opt in will have their evaluations shown in the repository.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-05-01-the-nat-gazette-june-2024/public-eval-archive.jpg)

#### Ranking criteria changes

| Type | Change | Link |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | **General** | Songs and artists currently disallowed in the [Content usage permissions](/wiki/Rules/Content_usage_permissions#artist-permissions) will **not** be able to be Ranked without explicit approval from their respective owners. | [View changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11262) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **General** | Beatmaps of songs and artists currently disallowed in the [Content usage permissions](/wiki/Rules/Content_usage_permissions#artist-permissions) will **not** be able to be Ranked without explicit approval from their respective owners. | [View changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11262) |
```

Author: Think it's fine without needing to clarify it, just like it wasn't [in the RC](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Ranking_criteria#tools:~:text=For%20artists%20or%20tracks%20which%20are%20listed%20as%20disallowed%20on%20the%20page%2C%20their%20songs%20may%20only%20be%20ranked%20if%20explicit%20permission%20for%20the%20track%20is%20given%20to%20the%20beatmap%20host.)

`Beatmaps of songs and artists...` sounds a bit weird on the tongue to me, though it may just be me.

Reviewer 2: sure np

| **General** | Clarification on what counts as either an extended edit or cut version in the case a recreation of the original audio is made. | [View changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11122) |

### Beatmap Nominator applications

The new changes aim to simplify and lower the bar of entry, while trimming any unnecessary processes that have accumulated since the inception of the application system. For those who were daunted or lost before, we encourage [applying today](https://bn.mappersguild.com/bnapps) to experience the changes yourselves!

#### A fresh application workflow

The application process has been streamlined, easing users into the application process by giving more specific pointers on what mods and explanations they're expected to give at the time of applying. The goal of this change was to "handhold" new applicants through the application process and for the NAT to focus more on the decision-making of candidates rather than solely base their verdict from mods alone.

#### Removal of the ranking criteria test

> Yep, you heard it here first. Or probably not. But the RC test is gone, dusted. Vanished, not to come again in the foreseeable future. The test in its current form didn't offer a lot. Besides being a filter and an English comprehension test, it was redundant as applicants would better show their understanding of the ranking criteria through their mods. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yep, you heard it here first. Or probably not. But the RC test is gone, dusted. Vanished, not to come again in the foreseeable future. The test in its current form didn't offer a lot. Besides being a filter and an English comprehension test, it was redundant as applicants would better show their understanding of the ranking criteria through their mods.
```

### Within the Beatmap Nominators

#### Probation is no longer a demotion option

The Probationary Beatmap Nominators user group has been reworked slightly. It will now serve its original goal, which is as a trial ground for greenhorns! When a new Beatmap Nominator is allowed into the team, they will be put in probation for their first couple months. After evaluating their performance with actual BN work, they will either be promoted or removed. Full Beatmap Nominators cannot under any circumstance be demoted back into probation.

#### Mock evaluations are no more

Beatmap Nominators will not be able to make mock evaluations anymore. Besides being underused, the system was usually superseded by the introduction of BN Evaluator cycles.

#### Vetoes

Vetoes have been slightly reworked. Once a veto is made, the entire user group of the game mode which it concerns will be drafted instead of a random jury. While participation is not obligatory, this change aims to provide a better representation of what the BN group of a game mode thinks of a veto, in turn making the results feel less like RNG.

#### Hybrid beatmapset nomination changes

> Beatmaps comprised of two or more game modes should have an easier time getting ranked! While the old system required two proficient BNs for each game mode present in a beatmap, with the new changes only the main game mode of a set will need two BNs. The other game modes will only require one nomination each. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beatmaps comprised of two or more game modes should have an easier time getting ranked! While the old system required two proficient BNs for each game mode present in a beatmap, with the new changes only the main game mode of a set will need two BNs. The other game modes will only require one nomination each.
```

Author: Spacemaxxing, spacebarpilled.

The main game mode of a beatmap is the one with the most difficulties, or the one with the most difficulties mapped by the host in the case of a tie. If it's still a tie between multiple modes, any one of them may be considered the main one and will need two nominations, giving the mapper and BNs some extra flexibility.

### Within the Nomination Assessment Team

#### NAT additions

With the removal of mock evaluations, the NAT addition process will fully rely on BN Evaluator cycles. Beatmap Nominators can sign up for these cycles, and their peers will vouch for the people they'd like to see assigned. The NAT will pick from this curated list, taking into consideration the opinions of the BNs who vouched for their peers.

It's worth noting that the current implementation is prone to change depending on community feedback. The plan is to test this new implementation to see what works and what doesn't, so stay tuned for more changes to come!

## Things to look out for

> ### Ranking criteria cleanup project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Ranking criteria clean-up project
```

> The Ranking Criteria cleanup project is still going strong! A few proposals already made it into the RC, with more looming around the corner such as the [metadata](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1894663?n=1) or the [storyboard](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1897427?n=1) proposals currently being discussed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Ranking Criteria clean-up project is still going strong! A few proposals already made it into the RC, with more looming around the corner such as the [metadata](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1894663?n=1) or the [storyboard](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1897427?n=1) proposals currently being discussed.
```

| ![Elite Nominator II badge](https://assets.ppy.sh/profile-badges/elite-nominator-2.png "Exemplary performance as a Beatmap Nominator for 2 years") | [fieryrage](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3533958), [FuJu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10773882), [gzdongsheng](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8660315), [Luscent](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2688581), [meiqth](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12565402), [NeKroMan4ik](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11387664), [nexusqi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/13822800), [zerokt](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/13776127) |
| ![200 Nominations Badge](https://assets.ppy.sh/profile-badges/noms200.png "Nominated 200+ beatmaps as a Beatmap Nominator") | [arcpotato](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12842392), [Dusk-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6092181), [Firika](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9590557), [Maxus](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4335785), [Noffy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1541323), [Quenlla](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4725379), [Shmiklak](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5504231), [Yasuho](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8458835) |
| ![400 Nominations Badge](https://assets.ppy.sh/profile-badges/noms400.png "Nominated 400+ beatmaps as a Beatmap Nominator") | [fieryrage](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3533958) |

---

> This is all for today! To stay tuned with discussions to come, we encourage everyone to keep an eye in the [Beatmap Management subforum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/115). Getting to know the community's opinion is crucial, and giving power to the user base should be our priority moving forward.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That is all for today! To stay tuned with discussions to come, we encourage everyone to keep an eye in the [Beatmap Management subforum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/115). Getting to know the community's opinion is crucial, and giving power to the user base should be our priority moving forward.
```

---
layout: post
title: "The NAT Gazette: June 2024"
date: 2024-05-01 13:00:00 +0000
---

The NAT Gazette returns with a big bang and a bigger list of changes to cover!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-05-01-the-nat-gazette-june-2024/nat-gazette-june-2024.jpg)

The NAT isn't dead, nor is the long awaited batch of updates that have slowly been creeping in ever since the last issue. With a bigger emphasis placed on transparency and easing communication between the Beatmap Nominators and the general playerbase, we'd like to shift gears and focus on how users receive this full suite of updates.

While there's a lot to go through, our resident bird connoisseur [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) has prepared us a changelog in the form of a video! We encourage giving it a look to quickly be up to speed with all the changes to come.

> <div align="center">

Reviewer: makes bottom margin the same as other paragraphs
(this should be in the news styling criteria templates shouldn't it)

![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/36758269/7b10a48e-af1c-41ef-a681-384360636fdc)

```suggestion
<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
```

>     <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OM_RBwsqmUY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: wrong type of link

```suggestion
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OM_RBwsqmUY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

### Community-wide changes

#### Beatmap Management subforum

As briefly spoiled before, we have created the brand-new [*BN Management* subforum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/115). This subforum aims to be a place for any Beatmap Nominator to start a discussion regarding the user group, Ranked section, or any of the systems involved with it. This not only aims to empower BNs by giving them an outlet to express their ideas, but also for the playerbase to interact and discuss in any open post and provide feedback to the proposals.

#### Public evaluations archive

A public repository with both applications and current BN evaluations can now be accessed by anyone! The repository can be found in the [BN website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/publicarchive). The goal of this change was for applicants to have a point of reference and learn from existing applications to know what to expect! Currently, only users who opt in will have their evaluations shown in the repository.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-05-01-the-nat-gazette-june-2024/public-eval-archive.jpg)

#### Ranking criteria changes

| Type | Change | Link |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | **General** | Songs and artists currently disallowed in the [Content usage permissions](/wiki/Rules/Content_usage_permissions#artist-permissions) will **not** be able to be Ranked without explicit approval from their respective owners. | [View changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11262) |

Reviewer: - the article name on its own doesn't really work in the sentence
- we typically only capitalise ranked when it's the category and not the verb

```suggestion
| **General** | Songs and artists currently disallowed in the [Content usage permissions](/wiki/Rules/Content_usage_permissions#artist-permissions) article will **not** be able to be ranked without explicit approval from their respective owners. | [View changes](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/11262) |
```

### Within the Nomination Assessment Team

#### NAT additions

With the removal of mock evaluations, the NAT addition process will fully rely on BN Evaluator cycles. Beatmap Nominators can sign up for these cycles, and their peers will vouch for the people they'd like to see assigned. The NAT will pick from this curated list, taking into consideration the opinions of the BNs who vouched for their peers.

It's worth noting that the current implementation is prone to change depending on community feedback. The plan is to test this new implementation to see what works and what doesn't, so stay tuned for more changes to come!

## Things to look out for

### Ranking criteria clean-up project

The Ranking Criteria clean-up project is still going strong! A few proposals already made it into the RC, with more looming around the corner such as the [metadata](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1894663?n=1) or the [storyboard](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1897427?n=1) proposals currently being discussed.

### Badges

> some fluff text, showcase badge redesign

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A whole lot of badges related to Beatmap Nominators and the Nomination Assessment Team have received a fresh coat of paint over the past few months thanks to [Tanza3D](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10379965). They are a little something to indicate the sheer amount of time committed for the mapping ecosystem.

We've laid them out below along with each recipient so far:
```
